unbis2skos
==========

Converts UNBIS Thesaurus SDF files to SKOS Core

skosify.rb is the magnum opus of this enterprise.  It reads the SDF file, splits it into temp files, creates individual instances of class Concept, does the same for categories, which become Collections, and finally maps Collection memberships, inScheme and hasTopConcept assignments, and broader, narrower, and related matches.  All of this is placed in the ConceptScheme.

Output options include single and split files (one ConceptScheme, Collection, or Concept per file), RDF/XML, JSON, nTriples, and Turtle.

To do:

1.  Add JSON-LD output
2.  Add owl:SameAs entries to preserve links to the existing non-SKOS thesaurus website

See it in action here: http://unbis-thesaurus.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/

Code for the web portion was built with Dart.  Repo coming soon.

==========
voc.rb is the old script.  It works as follows.

Steps:

1.  Split the SDF file into individual temporary files.
2.  Convert the temporary files into JSON formatted files to ease in processing and code re-use.
3.  Map the JSON files to enable term lookups.
4.  SKOSify the JSON files, scraping http://lib-thesaurus.un.org to create URIs.

Probably there are other things that can be done with this, especially in the area of categorization.  While the SKOS that has been generated by this script is nominally compliant (as in, it is good SKOS, and can be read by programs that read SKOS), it is not a perfect representation of the hierarchies by which the Thesaurus is organized.

I am no longer including a full SDF file with this script.  It is available by request if you use the contact links on the UNBIS Thesaurus website, linked above.  Similarly, requests for SKOS formatted XML extracts of the Thesaurus should go through the same contact method.
